[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is a xiaomi Air 12 now this is a device
that a lot of people have been asking me
to do a review for I never did it when
it first launched because it's a product
that it's difficult to purchase if
you're in North America and there's some
inherent risks that come with purchasing
a device from a smaller company like
Xiaomi but the thing that makes this
thing special is that it's kind of like
the ripoff version the knockoff version
of the MacBook 12-inch it's often
compared to this because of its shape
its size and its components so I thought
it would kind of do a video to showcase
the two so that you guys can have a
realistic comparison between the two one
of the more important things about this
device is the build quality this is a
very high quality device it's built
really well compared to a lot of
ultrabooks at this price point so this
thing actually starts at around 500
maybe $550 depending on where you
purchase it from this one in particular
is from gearbest
and it cost around five hundred thirty
dollars now the design language is quite
similar to the macbook not that they're
identical but you can see that it's
obviously been inspired by apple's
design simple flat slabs and this one
actually has no branding or marking on
the top of it it's actually difficult to
tell which company this product came
from just by looking at it now in terms
of its thickness it's some thicker and
heavier but it's very comfortable to
hold still the device is well made for
the price it's not super solid a twin
side as well built as a macbook and it
wouldn't say it's as durable of the
maxwell contenders like when you press
on aren't how much reflects there is but
it's surprisingly well made and I would
say it's better made than almost any
other ultrabook at this price point the
keyboard has some flex to it not a lot
it's mean it's not as rigid as a MacBook
I'm going to demonstrate on the MacBook
it's a little more rigid but it's not a
huge difference the display that they're
using as a 10 DP panel it's not as
high-resolution as a Macbook panel it's
also not as bright nor is color accurate
but it's a really nice screen
nonetheless it's also not a touchscreen
despite it being a glossy finish as well
the keyboard on the xiaomin is actually
pretty good I would say it's easier to
get used to than the MacBook keyboard I
like how everything to feel like a
regular keyboard in this there's no
super thin and butterfly switches or
anything it's very comfortable to type
on the one thing I don't like is the
track price I bet it's a bad trackpad
but I definitely prefer the MacBook
trackpad this uses a synaptic driver so
it's not ideal but it's not bad ok let's
talk about ports so show me with smart
they realize that not everyone likes
that whole single port thing on the
MacBook these guys have a single HDMI
port an audio jack and then on the other
side we have the USB a can to use PC
performance on this machine is pretty
good I mean on paper doesn't look
amazing at the sky like m3 but we
compared it for just actual use regular
use day-to-day stuff it performs really
well it's not as fast as an i5 or 97 but
unless you're doing more CPU intensive
stuff you probably won't notice a
difference one thing to note the MacBook
from 2016 is actually running the same
processor but the clock speed is a
little bit higher so this particular
chip you can kind of ramp up the speed
if you throw enough wattage at it and
that's what Apple has done they're
running the stock speeds of 0.9
gigahertz but when I use them they feel
really similar if you want to play games
on the Xiaomi you can play some really
light titles but anything even mildly
intense just won't run very well in a
system
the speakers on the Xiaomi are actually
not bad they're better than most
Ultrabook speakers at this size but
they're still not as good as the MacBook
speakers and I'll give you a little
quick speaker test
[Music]
so obviously MacBook has better speakers
but this thing's a lot cheaper yeah okay
we're going to take a look at the inside
pretty easy to get in there it's some
Torx screws on the inside you can see
the single status SiC that they include
the weird thing is that they have 2 m2
slots there's only one of them that
supports SATA and then the other one
supports PCIe you have to use
specifically those interfaces for those
two sticks the battery is pretty big
it's actually 37 watt hours the MacBook
has a 41 watt hour battery and you're
going to get slightly better battery
life on that thing you're getting around
9 hours of MacBook around 7 hours of
this even though this has only a
slightly smaller battery the RAM is
unfortunately soldered on it four gigs
and you're stuck with four gigs
regardless of the configuration and
lastly you'll notice that there's no
fans it's a completely silent system
with the ultra low voltage CPU but
everything in here looks nicely packed
together there's no wasted space in here
or anything several output is
comfortable I mean it is an ultra low
voltage ship so nothing gets super hot
or anything if you're curious about the
webcam it looks better than the macbook
webcam to 720p the MacBook has a 480p
cam the ultimate question is whether or
not the xiaomi r12 is worth the price
because as you could see in this review
the MacBook is better across the board
except for a few things so like the
keyboard on a xiaomi is better arguably
the port selection is better on the
xiaomi and well the webcam is better on
the xiaomi but aside from that the
MacBook is better all around the board
other than the fact that runs OS X
that's the preference thing so is it
worth it I think it is it's really
difficult to compare something like this
when the price is so different but if
you're looking to purchase something
like a thin and light ultra book I've
always felt that that MacBook was just
too expensive for what it offered this
thing gives surprisingly good value at
this price the only thing and really the
only thing that holds me back from just
being like hey everyone just go buy this
thing is the fact that has to come from
China or somewhere in Asia and if there
are problems with this laptop you're
going to have a tough time getting it
fixed
that's theme of this video hope you guys
enjoyed it thumbs be liked it subdue you
loved it see you guys next time
[Music]